# $${\color{green}Welcome \space to \space my \space GitHub!}$$

Hi! I'm Hugo, a 21-year old graduated in **Management**, just finishing the first year of the Master's in **Data Science and Advanced Analytics**, with a specialization in **Business Analytics**. <br>
In this repository, you can take a look at some of the projects that I (individually or as part of a group) have been developing throughout the past months. Below, you will find a short summary of each one. <br>

## Projects' Description
#### Hospital Readmission Prediction
Hospital readmissions represent a significant challenge in the healthcare sector, both as an indicator of care quality and a driver of escalating costs. Therefore, being able to predict such readmissions can lead to improved patient care and substantial cost savings. <br>
Given these circumstances, we approached the readmissions problem from two perspectives: a **binary classification** model to predict if a patient would be readmitted 30 days post-discharge and a **multiclass classification model**, broadening the options to predict readmissions after 30 days. Using a diabetes dataset, we tested several models for both cases after a rigorous data cleaning and feature selection (which included 8 different techniques). In both cases, we had single models, including logistic regression, support vector machines and neural networks, and ensemble models, such as random forests and stacking.

#### Movie Analysis
This cross-sectional study research of the factors driving movie success in 2018, presented in the shape of a poster, focuses on evaluating the economic success of mainstream movies, emphasizing gross income as a key metric. The study aims to provide insights into audience engagement, marketing effectiveness, and industry trends through the lens of gross income, considering the unique circumstances surrounding the year of 2018.
After a primary data cleaning and preparation stage, we employed various **statistical inference** techniques. We assessed the correlation between features, analyzed the statistical significance of the independent features in our dataset through an ANOVA test, and culminated our work in building a multiple linear regression model that, with the help of the most relevant variables, allowed to make strong predictions of the gross income generated by each movie.

#### Shoe Store Database
This project involved the creation of a company, which we chose to be one focused on selling high-end customized shoes, and a database consisting of the tables necessary for the business to function properly. Utilizing **SQL**, we created a total of 10 tables, identifying the relationships between them and respecting the 3 first normal forms. Besides, we were able to query our tables in order to retrieve sepcific information, either by writing a single query, or by creating views that allowed for the same query to be retrieved multiple times, whenever necessary.

#### Sports Center Customer Segmentation
Customers are the core of any business. They are the ones who buy the product or service, evaluate it, and, in the end, the best promoters it can have. Thus, understanding how to acquire clients should 
be a key component in the development of any business strategy, and that starts by getting to know the current ones. <br>
This project focused on the application of **descriptive modeling** techniques to XYZ Sports Company. After data exploration, preparation and feature selection, we tested clustering algorithms such as K-Means, Self-Organizing Maps, DBSCAN and K-Prototypes. Based on the finding, we suggested business applications according to the various segments of clients identified, in order to improve XYZ's value to its customers.

#### Others
Other projects that I took part in include:
* **Forecasting** the monthly sales of a business unit of a German technological company;
* A **recommender system** developed for a Portuguese retail organization, to be adopted in their website;
* A **process mining and machine learning model**, combining both fields to predict the conclusion of a business process in one of the biggest Portuguese private banks.
Having been developed for real companies in real-use scenarios, the details of these projects will be kept secret (🤐). Nonetheless, hopefully its short description will enhance the diversity of projects that I was able to participate in.

# $${\color{green}Thank \space you, \space and \space enjoy!}$$
